## Methods

### Construction of CASP1-centered co-expression network

In order to find new genes associated with casparian strip development, we constructed a OsCASP1-centered co-expression network. According to single-cell transcriptome analysis of rice root[1], the endodermis enriched gene clusters were referred as initial candidates. The co-expression genes of all these endodermis candidates were retrived from a large-scale online RNA-seq database[2], which was generated by analysing more than ten thousand of rice transcriptome libraries. A raw network was then achieved by counting the co-expression relationships between these genes. Only genes with connectivity greater than 20 (i.e. any gene connected with no less than 20 other genes) were retained for subsequent analysis. By filtering for genes directly or indirectly (containing only one intermediate node) linked to CASP1, which is closely associated with casparian strip development,a OsCASP1-centered subnetwork was generated. 

[1] Zhang, Tian-Qi, Yu Chen, Ye Liu, Wen-Hui Lin, and Jia-Wei Wang. “Single-Cell Transcriptome Atlas and Chromatin Accessibility Landscape Reveal Differentiation Trajectories in the Rice Root.” *Nature Communications* 12, no. 1 (December 2021): 2053. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-22352-4.

[2] Yu, Yiming, Hong Zhang, Yanping Long, Yi Shu, and Jixian Zhai. “Plant Public RNA-Seq Database: A Comprehensive Online Database for Expression Analysis of 45 000 Plant Public RNA-Seq Libraries.” *Plant Biotechnology Journal* 20, no. 5 (2022): 806–8. https://doi.org/10.1111/pbi.13798.